DOCS-776: Designing your ML Model to work with Vision Services (#2179)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/modular-resources/advanced/mlmodel-design.md

---
title: "Design your ML Models for Vision"
linkTitle: "Vision Service and Modular ML Model Design"
weight: 60
type: "docs"
tags: ["data management", "ml", "model training"]
description: "Design your ML Model service to work with Viam's vision services."
icon: "/services/icons/ml.svg"
# SME: Bijan Haney
---

Models of Viam's [Machine Learning (ML) model service](/services/ml/) allow you to deploy machine learning models to your smart machine.
Vision services, like [an `"mlmodel"` detector](/services/vision/detection/#configure-an-mlmodel-detector) or [classifier](/services/vision/classification/#configure-an-mlmodel-classifier), enable you to identify and classify objects in images with the predictions those deployed models make.

The two services work closely together, with the vision service relying on the deployed ML model to make inferences.

> If [designing your own ML Model service](/modular-resources/) to add to [the Registry](https://app.viam.com/registry), you must try to make your ML models' shapes match the input and output tensors the vision service expects to work with if you want the two services to be able to work together out of the box.

Author: ```suggestion
If [designing your own ML Model service](/modular-resources/) to add to [the Registry](https://app.viam.com/registry), you must try to make your ML models' shapes match the input and output tensors the vision service expects to work with if you want the two services to coordinate in classification or detection.
```

To know what to expect, the vision service looks for descriptions of these characteristics in the [metadata](/services/ml/#metadata) of the ML model, as defined in [the Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/service/mlmodel/v1/mlmodel_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.service.mlmodel.v1.mlmodel_pb2.Metadata).
For an example of this, see [Example Metadata](#example-metadata).

## Input tensor: `input_info` in metadata

> For both [classification](/services/vision/classification/) and [detection](/services/vision/detection/) models, the vision service sends an input tensor to the ML Model with the following structure:

Author: Sounds good to me, changed!

- One input tensor called `"image"` with type `uint8` or `float32` and shape `(1, height, width, 3)`, with the last channel, `3` being the RGB bytes of the pixel.
- If image `height` and `width` are unknown or variable, then `height` and/or `width` `= -1`. During inference runtime the image will have a known height and width.

## Output tensors: `output_info` in metadata

Data can be returned by the ML model in many ways, due to the variety of machine learning models for computer vision.
While the vision service tries to take into account many different forms of models by looking at the metadata of the model, if the model does not provide metadata, the vision service will make guesses.

> If you need to add structure and metadata, output that is organized in terms of the "ideal guess" will work out of the box.

Reviewer: Maybe remove this line -- I know I wrote it but I forgot what I meant by it 😅

Author: Haha sounds good

The ideal guesses of the vision service are as follows:

> For labels:

Reviewer 2: I think this "For labels" chunk should go after "For detections" and before "Example metadata"

Author: Done

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we add this in front of what's below: "Many computer vision models have an associated 'labelfile.txt' that simply lists the class labels associated with the model."

Author: Yep! Added

> - To get labels that will be associated to classifications or detections, currently the vision service looks at the first element of the `output_info` list in the ML models' metadata and looks for a key called `"labels"` in its `"extra"` struct. The value of that key should be the full path to the label file on the robot.

Reviewer 2: And then "To get those labels associated with the model, currently... ".

Reviewer 2: Also I think this would benefit from a "(see the example metadata below)"

Author: Done!

  ```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
  label_path = ml_model_metadata.output_info.extra["labels"]
  ```

For [classifications](/services/vision/classification/):

- The model returns 1 tensor, called `"probability"` with shape `(1, n_classifications)`

> - The data is floating point numbers representing probability, between `0` and `1`.

Author: Done!

---
title: "Design your ML Models for Vision"

> linkTitle: "Vision Service and Modular ML Model Design"

Reviewer 3: The link title should be the same as the title or shorter - this is the one that goes in the left nav
```suggestion
linkTitle: "ML Model Design"
```

Author: Ah sounds good, done

weight: 60
type: "docs"
tags: ["data management", "ml", "model training"]
description: "Design your ML Model service to work with Viam's vision services."
icon: "/services/icons/ml.svg"
# SME: Bijan Haney
---

> Models of Viam's [Machine Learning (ML) model service](/services/ml/) allow you to deploy machine learning models to your smart machine.

Reviewer 3: While this is technically correct, I think in this case it's ok to just speak of the service in the introduction
```suggestion
The [Machine Learning (ML) model service](/services/ml/) allow you to deploy machine learning models to your smart machine.
```

Author: Sounds good

> Vision services, like [an `"mlmodel"` detector](/services/vision/detection/#configure-an-mlmodel-detector) or [classifier](/services/vision/classification/#configure-an-mlmodel-classifier), enable you to identify and classify objects in images with the predictions those deployed models make.

Author: Done

The two services work closely together, with the vision service relying on the deployed ML model to make inferences.

> If [designing your own ML Model service](/modular-resources/) to add to [the Registry](https://app.viam.com/registry), you must try to make your ML models' shapes match the input and output tensors the `mlmodel` vision service expects to work with if you want the two services to coordinate in classification or detection.

Author: Done

> To know what to expect, the `mlmodel` vision service looks for descriptions of these characteristics in the [metadata](/services/ml/#metadata) of the ML model, as defined in [the Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/service/mlmodel/v1/mlmodel_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.service.mlmodel.v1.mlmodel_pb2.Metadata).

Author: ```suggestion
To be able to utilize a deployed ML model, the `mlmodel` vision service looks for descriptions of these characteristics in the [metadata](/services/ml/#metadata) of the model, as defined in [the Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/service/mlmodel/v1/mlmodel_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.service.mlmodel.v1.mlmodel_pb2.Metadata).
```

> To know what to expect, the `mlmodel` vision service looks for descriptions of these characteristics in the [metadata](/services/ml/#metadata) of the ML model, as defined in [the Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/service/mlmodel/v1/mlmodel_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.service.mlmodel.v1.mlmodel_pb2.Metadata).

Author: Tried to -- lmk what you think

For an example of this, see [Example Metadata](#example-metadata).

## Input tensor: `input_info` in metadata

For both [classification](/services/vision/classification/) and [detection](/services/vision/detection/) models, the vision service sends a single input tensor to the ML Model with the following structure:

> - One input tensor called `"image"` with type `uint8` or `float32` and shape `(1, height, width, 3)`, with the last channel, `3` being the RGB bytes of the pixel.

Author: Done

- If image `height` and `width` are unknown or variable, then `height` and/or `width` `= -1`. During inference runtime the image will have a known height and width.

## Output tensors: `output_info` in metadata

Data can be returned by the ML model in many ways, due to the variety of machine learning models for computer vision.

> The vision service will try to take into account many different forms of models by looking at the metadata of the model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The vision service will try to take into account many different forms of models as specified by the metadata of the model.
```

Author: Done

> If the model does not provide metadata, the vision service will make guesses.
> The ideal guesses of the vision service are as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the model does not provide metadata, the vision service will make the following assumptions:
```

Author: Done, thank you this is a good suggestion

For [classifications](/services/vision/classification/):

- The model returns 1 tensor, called `"probability"` with shape `(1, n_classifications)`
- The data is floating point numbers representing probability, between `0` and `1`.

> - If the data is not between `0` and `1`, the vision service will compute a softmax over the data, resulting in floating point numbers between `0` and `1` representing probability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If the data is not between `0` and `1`, the vision service computes softmax over the data, resulting in floating point numbers between `0` and `1` representing probability.
```

Author: Done

For [detections](/services/vision/detection/):

- The model returns 3 tensors

>   1. "Location": the bounding boxes

Reviewer 3: should these three be in monospace?

Author: I can do that!

>   1. "Location": the bounding boxes

Author: ```suggestion
  1. `"Location"`: the bounding boxes
```

     - Shape: `(1, n_detections, 4)`
     - Bounding boxes each have shape `(xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax)`
     - Bounding boxes are the proportion of where the box corner is in the image, using a number between `0` and `1`.

>   2. "Category": the labels on the boxes

Author: ```suggestion
  2. `"Category"`: the labels on the boxes
```

     - Shape: `(1, n_detections)`
     - Integers representing the index of the label.

>   3. "Score": The confidence scores of the label

Author: ```suggestion
  3. `"Score"`: The confidence scores of the label
```

>      - Shape: `(batch, n_detections)`

Reviewer 2: Also I didn't catch this before but this should really just say (1, n_detections) for the score shape

>      - Shape: `(batch, n_detections)`

Author: ```suggestion
     - Shape: `(1, n_detections)`
```

     - Floating point numbers representing probability, between `0` and `1`.

For labels:

> - Many computer vision models have an associated 'labelfile.txt' that simply lists the class labels associated with the model.

Reviewer 2: I actually didn't mean this should be a separate bullet. Just the first sentence of the next part

Author: Sounds good, changing

> - Many computer vision models have an associated 'labelfile.txt' that simply lists the class labels associated with the model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Many computer vision models have an associated 'labelfile.txt' that lists the class labels associated with the model.
```

Author: done

> - Many computer vision models have an associated 'labelfile.txt' that simply lists the class labels associated with the model.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - To get those labels associated with the model, currently the vision service looks at the first element of the `output_info` list in the ML models' metadata and looks for a key called `"labels"` in its `"extra"` struct. The value of that key should be the full path to the label file on the robot. See [Example Metadata](#example-metadata) for an example of this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- To get those labels associated with the model, currently the vision service looks at the first element of the `output_info` list in the ML models' metadata and checks for a key called `"labels"` in its `"extra"` struct.
  The value of that key should be the full path to the label file on the robot.
  See [Example Metadata](#example-metadata) for an example of this.
```

> - To get those labels associated with the model, currently the vision service looks at the first element of the `output_info` list in the ML models' metadata and looks for a key called `"labels"` in its `"extra"` struct. The value of that key should be the full path to the label file on the robot. See [Example Metadata](#example-metadata) for an example of this.

Author: ```suggestion
- Many computer vision models have an associated 'labelfile.txt' that lists the class labels associated with the model. To get those labels associated with the model, the vision service looks at the first element of the `output_info` list in the ML models' metadata and looks for a key called `"labels"` in its `"extra"` struct. The value of that key should be the full path to the label file on the robot. See [Example Metadata](#example-metadata) for an example of this.
```

# SME: Bijan Haney
---

The [Machine Learning (ML) model service](/services/ml/) allow you to deploy machine learning models to your smart machine.
Vision services, like [an `"mlmodel"` detector](/services/vision/detection/#configure-an-mlmodel-detector) or [classifier](/services/vision/classification/#configure-an-mlmodel-classifier), enable your machines to identify and classify objects in images with the deployed models' predictions.

The two services work closely together, with the vision service relying on the deployed ML model to make inferences.
If you are [designing your own ML Model service](/modular-resources/), you must try to make your ML models' shapes match the input and output tensors the `mlmodel` vision service expects to work with if you want the two services to coordinate in classification or detection.

> To be able to utilize a deployed ML model, the `mlmodel` vision service looks for descriptions of these characteristics in the [metadata](/services/ml/#metadata) of the model, as defined in [the Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/service/mlmodel/v1/mlmodel_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.service.mlmodel.v1.mlmodel_pb2.Metadata).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To be able to use a deployed ML model, the `mlmodel` vision service checks for descriptions of these characteristics in the [metadata](/services/ml/#metadata) of the model, as defined in [the Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/service/mlmodel/v1/mlmodel_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.service.mlmodel.v1.mlmodel_pb2.Metadata).
```
